My name is Nadim Ednan-Laperouse, I'm the CEO of WOW Toys.

We're an English toy company that specialises in pre-school toys - toys for younger children.

We distribute in the UK and in 36 other countries in the world.

When we show new products to our customers, their reaction usually is WOW! That's fabulous, we can't get that from anywhere else, we want to buy it. It's as simple as that.

New product development at WOW is a controlled process. We've developed a  planning system that is quite straightforward to follow for all of the people in the company.

There are a lot of processes involved in the cycle, and planning is key.

At WOW it takes about a 1-year cycle to have an idea and to launch it on the market.

And if we adhere to that cycle, or that schedule, then we win.

We're always working on a range of new potential products, and recently Harvey Harvester, this product here, is one of our star products, this is a recent launch, and it's literally been on the market for a couple of months around the world, and I'm glad to say it's selling very well.

He's a harvester, the perfect harvester for a two-year-old, comes with his own driver that can fit inside the cab, like so, and it has a rotating front thresher to harvest all the wheat in time for everybody, and also bales of hay that can be put in the top, and as the vehicle drives along, the hay comes out the back.

He's been successful, as far as we can ascertain, because the theme and the style of it has appealed to a very broad brush of our entire customer base, so that every single country is buying this product and the mothers and children love it.

When we start considering new product development, there are three things that we need to look at. One is the trends in the marketplace.

Two -  we need to look at what's missing from our own product range, against our competitors, and Three, what the public, ie the end consumer are asking from us.

Through our process, we get a pretty clear idea early on if a new product is going to besuccessful, because we show the prototypes of the designs to our key customers, in the UK and abroad.

And we do this at specific times in the year, and that allows us to gauge very early on if a toy is going to be successful or not, and whether we should actually pursue finishing the design and spending more money on a project.

Our most successful product has been this one, called Harry Copter.

He's been successful, as far as we can ascertain, because we don't use batteries and this is a perfect example of that.

You have a mechanical toy, that doesn't need batteries, but it can do a lot of things, and the theming of the toy is very endearing, and appeals to a wide range of children and parents across the entire world.

When we have successful new products at WOW, the impact is quite tremendous it really pushes the company along financially, and also in terms of relationships with our customer base.

A successful product basically puts us right at the top of the league, in terms of our situation and our potential growth as a company.

Largely, most of our toys are very successful, and we spend a lot of time making sure of that.

But when it's really successful, it's a great feeling for the company and everyone else who's involved with the product.

It's a research and development based company return on investment is really important for us, because that's where the profits come from.

Now our built-in timeline is that any brand new product should pay its entire cost of development within the first 14 months of being launched on the market.

That is our measure of success, and if we can beat that, then fantastic!

If a toy takes longer than 14 months to pay back, then something's not quite right.

But after 14 months, we're making profit, year on, year on.

There are a lot of risks attached to new product development but anything that can get you ahead by a long way does have its risks.

Product development is just a process, and if it's well managed, and you are in control of  most of the issues, it will pay dividends.

However, if you're not managing that process well, you can end up losing quite a lot of money. New product development is absolutely vital.

WOW Toys would not exist for more than one year as a business if we didn't have new product development.

I think new product development is the life-blood and the soul of any business.

It's absolutely important to be excited and motivated and to want to be involved with new product development.